docs/development/decisions/0006-acceptance-tests.adoc, before:

= 6. Acceptance tests

Date: 2024-05-28

== Status

Draft

== Context

We heavily rely on developer tests for small units of isolated code.
For various reasons, we have not developed an acceptance test suite so far.
As the project and the team matures, acceptance tests would be helpful
to clearly state business requirements and make them self-verifiable as tests.

These tests would be run end-to-end as much as possible and therefore verify
user journeys better.

We should still be conscious of costs that such tests bring and attempt to make them
as lightweight as possible. The frontend is not javascript heavy and there's no need
to run these tests in a browser most of the time.

=== Option 1: xUnit

Use a library like https://github.com/JasperFx/alba[Alba] directly in xUnit tests
to exercise the Frontend application. Start all the application services with the
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/test/integration-tests?view=aspnetcore-8.0[dotnet web application factory],
and any external dependencies (like the database) with https://github.com/testcontainers/testcontainers-dotnet[Testcontainers].

Advantages:

* We continue using the technology we're familiar with
* It's fast to write tests

Disadvantages:

* Tests focus on "How" rather than "What", i.e. tests describe visiting pages and filling out forms, rather
  than tasks that users try to accomplish (i.e. Provide company information). This could be improved by introducing
  a layer of abstraction on top of user actions.
* Tests are only readable by developers and can only be maintained by developers.

=== Option 2: SpecFlow

https://specflow.org/[SpecFlow] is the industry standard for acceptance tests in dotnet.

It's great advantage is a separation of "What" from the "How". Tests can be expressed in a business language:

[source,gherkin]
----
Feature: Confirming Personal Name on Supplier Information Portal

    As a representative of an organisation
    I want to confirm my first and last name
    So that my personal identity is correctly associated with the organisation's profile.

    Scenario: Successfully confirming a user's name
        Given the user is on the 'Confirm your name' page
        When the user enters their first and last name into the input fields
        And clicks the 'Continue' button
        Then the user should be taken to the next step in the registration process
----

It's a structured language, called Gherkin.

Scenarios like the one above are then translated to actions (navigating to a page, making an api call etc).

Advantages:

* Human-readable tests, a separation of "How" from "What".
* Tests could be written by QAs (to some extent).

Disadvantages:

* SpecFlow requires an IDE plugin that is not kept up to date for some IDEs (like Rider)
* Tests can be executed with xunit, but the IDE plugin is required.

=== Option 3: Xunit.Gherkin.Quick

https://github.com/ttutisani/Xunit.Gherkin.Quick[Quick] is a lightweight "BDD" framework, similar to SpecFlow.
It also enables us write tests as human-readable scenarios in Gherkin.
The main difference to SpecFlow is that it's built on top of xUnit.

Advantages:

* Human-readable tests, a separation of "How" from "What".
* Tests could be written by QAs (to some extent).
* xUnit integration. All the tools we use in xUnit can be used here (like testcontainers).

Disadvantages:

* It's less popular than SpecFlow.

== Decision

TBD

Commit message:

Mention Playwright as an option

docs/development/decisions/0006-acceptance-tests.adoc, after:

= 6. Acceptance tests

Date: 2024-05-28

== Status

Draft

== Context

We heavily rely on developer tests for small units of isolated code.
For various reasons, we have not developed an acceptance test suite so far.
As the project and the team matures, acceptance tests would be helpful
to clearly state business requirements and make them self-verifiable as tests.

These tests would be run end-to-end as much as possible and therefore verify
user journeys better.

We should still be conscious of costs that such tests bring and attempt to make them
as lightweight as possible. The frontend is not javascript heavy and there's no need
to run these tests in a browser most of the time.

=== Option 1: xUnit

Use a library like https://github.com/JasperFx/alba[Alba] or https://playwright.dev/dotnet/docs/intro[Playwright]
directly in xUnit tests to exercise the Frontend application.
Start all the application services with the
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/test/integration-tests?view=aspnetcore-8.0[dotnet web application factory],
and any external dependencies (like the database) with https://github.com/testcontainers/testcontainers-dotnet[Testcontainers].

Alba integrates very well with dotnet core applications out of the box. It's possible to run and customise the application
in-memory, without a need to execute tests in a browser.

Playwright is a very well established tool.
With a https://www.innovensa.co.uk/blog/in-memory-automated-ui-testing-aspnetcore[little bit of customisation] it should also
be possible to run it against the application run in-memory, but it's not available out of the box.

Advantages:

* We continue using the technology we're familiar with
* It's fast to write tests

Disadvantages:

* Tests focus on "How" rather than "What", i.e. tests describe visiting pages and filling out forms, rather
  than tasks that users try to accomplish (i.e. Provide company information). This could be improved by introducing
  a layer of abstraction on top of user actions.
* Tests are only readable by developers and can only be maintained by developers.

=== Option 2: SpecFlow

https://specflow.org/[SpecFlow] is the industry standard for acceptance tests in dotnet.

It's great advantage is a separation of "What" from the "How". Tests can be expressed in a business language:

[source,gherkin]
----
Feature: Confirming Personal Name on Supplier Information Portal

    As a representative of an organisation
    I want to confirm my first and last name
    So that my personal identity is correctly associated with the organisation's profile.

    Scenario: Successfully confirming a user's name
        Given the user is on the 'Confirm your name' page
        When the user enters their first and last name into the input fields
        And clicks the 'Continue' button
        Then the user should be taken to the next step in the registration process
----

It's a structured language, called Gherkin.

Scenarios like the one above are then translated to actions (navigating to a page, making an api call etc).

Advantages:

* Human-readable tests, a separation of "How" from "What".
* Tests could be written by QAs (to some extent).
* Nice reports available out of the box.

Disadvantages:

* SpecFlow requires an IDE plugin that is not kept up to date for some IDEs (like Rider)
* Tests can be executed with xunit, but the IDE plugin is required.

=== Option 3: Xunit.Gherkin.Quick

https://github.com/ttutisani/Xunit.Gherkin.Quick[Quick] is a lightweight "BDD" framework, similar to SpecFlow.
It also enables us write tests as human-readable scenarios in Gherkin.
The main difference to SpecFlow is that it's built on top of xUnit.

Advantages:

* Human-readable tests, a separation of "How" from "What".
* Tests could be written by QAs (to some extent).
* xUnit integration. All the tools we use in xUnit can be used here (like testcontainers).

Disadvantages:

* It's less popular than SpecFlow.

== Decision

TBD
