docs/development/01-development-environment.adoc, before:

= Development environment

== Requirements

The minimum set of tools required to work on the project covers:

* An IDE of your choice (i.e. Visual Studio, Rider)
* https://www.docker.com/[Docker]

On Windows, it might be handy to set up https://git-scm.com/downloads[git-bash] or WSL
in order to run tools like Make.

== Configuration

The application is mostly configured to start with a fresh repository checkout.
The only configuration missing are secrets that are not safe to be commited to the repository.

**Never commit secrets to the repository.**

Secrets are managed with the
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=linux#secret-manager[Secrets Manager]
and environment variables. IDE depends on the secrets manager while Docker depends on environment variables.

Environment variables for Docker are managed in `compose.override.yml` file that's not version controlled.
Run the following command to create it with defaults:

[source,bash]
----
make compose.override.yml
----

=== Organisation App

The `OrganisationApp` requires the following secrets / environment variables:

* `OneLogin:Authority` / `OneLogin__Authority`
* `OneLogin:ClientId` / `OneLogin__ClientId`
* `OneLogin:PrivateKey` / `OneLogin__PrivateKey`

These can be set as secrets with the following dotnet commands:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:Authority "https://oidc.example.com"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:ClientId "client-id"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:PrivateKey "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----SECRET KEY-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
----

For Docker, the following environment variables need to be updated in `compose.override.yml`
for the `organisation-app` service:

[source,yaml]
----
  organisation-app:
    environment:
      OneLogin__Authority: "https://oidc.example.com"
      OneLogin__ClientId: "client-id"
      OneLogin__PrivateKey: "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----SECRET KEY-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
----

=== Authority API

The `Authority` API depends on the following secrets / environment variables:

* `OneLogin:Authority` / `OneLogin__Authority`
* `PrivateKey` / `PrivateKey`

To set them in the secrets manager, run:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet user-secrets set --project Services/CO.CDP.Organisation.Authority OneLogin:Authority "https://oidc.example.com"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Services/CO.CDP.Organisation.Authority PrivateKey "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY----"
----

NOTE: The `make generate-authority-keys` command generates a private key that
can be used with `PrivateKey`. Make sure to copy the contents of file and not the path.

For Docker, update the `authority` service in `compose.override.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
  authority:
    environment:
      PrivateKey: "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
      OneLogin__Authority: "https://oidc.example.com"
----

== Setting up the IDE

Import the project to your favourite IDE to build and run tests from there.

.Running tests in an IDE
image::../images/development/run-all-tests.png[Runing all tests in the IDE]

Alternatively, use the `dotnet` command or the following make targets to build and run tests:

[source,bash]
----
make build
make test
----

Any dotnet tools used by the project are
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools#install-a-local-tool[installed locally]
and will be restored by the above commands.

== Setting Up Docker

While local development is done within the IDE of our choice, the Docker Compose configuration is provided
to conveniently start all (or some) services at once.

First, make sure you configured environment variables in `compose.override.yml` (see <<Configuration>>).

Next, build all the Docker containers with the `build-docker` Make target:

[source,bash]
----
make build-docker
----

Finally, we can start all Docker services with:

[source,bash]
----
make up
----

By default, service and application ports are mapped as follows:

* OrganisationApp - - http://localhost:8090/
* Authority - - http://localhost:8092/swagger/
* Tenant - http://localhost:8080/swagger/
* Organisation - http://localhost:8082/swagger/
* Person - http://localhost:8084/swagger/
* Forms - http://localhost:8086/swagger/
* Data Sharing - http://localhost:8088/swagger/
* PostgreSQL database - :5432

.All services started in Docker
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-all-in-docker.svg[All services started in Docker]

Later, all services can be stopped and destroyed with:

[source,bash]
----
make down
----

== Make targets

There's a number of Make targets that provide shortcuts during development.
Run `make help` to get an up-to-date list.

.Make targets
|===
|Target | Description

|help   | Shows available commands
|build  | Builds the solution
|test   | Runs all tests
|up | Starts all the Docker containers
|down | Stops and removes all Docker containers
|stop | Stops all Docker containers
|ps | Lists all running Docker containers
|db | Starts the database Docker container only and runs migrations
|localstack | Starts the localstack Docker container for AWS services available locally
|generate-authority-keys | Generates the private/public key pair for the authority service
|===

Commit message:

Document organisation webapi notify api key requirement

docs/development/01-development-environment.adoc, after:

= Development environment

== Requirements

The minimum set of tools required to work on the project covers:

* An IDE of your choice (i.e. Visual Studio, Rider)
* https://www.docker.com/[Docker]

On Windows, it might be handy to set up https://git-scm.com/downloads[git-bash] or WSL
in order to run tools like Make.

== Configuration

The application is mostly configured to start with a fresh repository checkout.
The only configuration missing are secrets that are not safe to be commited to the repository.

**Never commit secrets to the repository.**

Secrets are managed with the
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=linux#secret-manager[Secrets Manager]
and environment variables. IDE depends on the secrets manager while Docker depends on environment variables.

Environment variables for Docker are managed in `compose.override.yml` file that's not version controlled.
Run the following command to create it with defaults:

[source,bash]
----
make compose.override.yml
----

=== Organisation App

The `OrganisationApp` requires the following secrets / environment variables:

* `OneLogin:Authority` / `OneLogin__Authority`
* `OneLogin:ClientId` / `OneLogin__ClientId`
* `OneLogin:PrivateKey` / `OneLogin__PrivateKey`

These can be set as secrets with the following dotnet commands:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:Authority "https://oidc.example.com"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:ClientId "client-id"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Frontend/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp/CO.CDP.OrganisationApp.csproj OneLogin:PrivateKey "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----SECRET KEY-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
----

For Docker, the following environment variables need to be updated in `compose.override.yml`
for the `organisation-app` service:

[source,yaml]
----
  organisation-app:
    environment:
      OneLogin__Authority: "https://oidc.example.com"
      OneLogin__ClientId: "client-id"
      OneLogin__PrivateKey: "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----SECRET KEY-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
----

=== Organisation WebApi

The `Organisation.WebApi` requires the following secrets / environment variables:

* `GOVUKNotify:ApiKey` / `GOVUKNotify__ApiKey`

These can be set as secrets with the following dotnet commands:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet user-secrets set --project Services/CO.CDP.Organisation.WebApi/CO.CDP.Organisation.WebApi.csproj GOVUKNotify:ApiKey "123456"
----

For Docker, the following environment variables need to be updated in `compose.override.yml`
for the `organisation` service:

[source,yaml]
----
  organisation:
    environment:
      GOVUKNotify__ApiKey: "123456"
----

=== Authority API

The `Authority` API depends on the following secrets / environment variables:

* `OneLogin:Authority` / `OneLogin__Authority`
* `PrivateKey` / `PrivateKey`

To set them in the secrets manager, run:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet user-secrets set --project Services/CO.CDP.Organisation.Authority OneLogin:Authority "https://oidc.example.com"
dotnet user-secrets set --project Services/CO.CDP.Organisation.Authority PrivateKey "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY----"
----

NOTE: The `make generate-authority-keys` command generates a private key that
can be used with `PrivateKey`. Make sure to copy the contents of file and not the path.

For Docker, update the `authority` service in `compose.override.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
  authority:
    environment:
      PrivateKey: "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----"
      OneLogin__Authority: "https://oidc.example.com"
----

== Setting up the IDE

Import the project to your favourite IDE to build and run tests from there.

.Running tests in an IDE
image::../images/development/run-all-tests.png[Runing all tests in the IDE]

Alternatively, use the `dotnet` command or the following make targets to build and run tests:

[source,bash]
----
make build
make test
----

Any dotnet tools used by the project are
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools#install-a-local-tool[installed locally]
and will be restored by the above commands.

== Setting Up Docker

While local development is done within the IDE of our choice, the Docker Compose configuration is provided
to conveniently start all (or some) services at once.

First, make sure you configured environment variables in `compose.override.yml` (see <<Configuration>>).

Next, build all the Docker containers with the `build-docker` Make target:

[source,bash]
----
make build-docker
----

Finally, we can start all Docker services with:

[source,bash]
----
make up
----

By default, service and application ports are mapped as follows:

* OrganisationApp - - http://localhost:8090/
* Authority - - http://localhost:8092/swagger/
* Tenant - http://localhost:8080/swagger/
* Organisation - http://localhost:8082/swagger/
* Person - http://localhost:8084/swagger/
* Forms - http://localhost:8086/swagger/
* Data Sharing - http://localhost:8088/swagger/
* PostgreSQL database - :5432

.All services started in Docker
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-all-in-docker.svg[All services started in Docker]

Later, all services can be stopped and destroyed with:

[source,bash]
----
make down
----

== Make targets

There's a number of Make targets that provide shortcuts during development.
Run `make help` to get an up-to-date list.

.Make targets
|===
|Target | Description

|help   | Shows available commands
|build  | Builds the solution
|test   | Runs all tests
|up | Starts all the Docker containers
|down | Stops and removes all Docker containers
|stop | Stops all Docker containers
|ps | Lists all running Docker containers
|db | Starts the database Docker container only and runs migrations
|localstack | Starts the localstack Docker container for AWS services available locally
|generate-authority-keys | Generates the private/public key pair for the authority service
|===
