docs/development/cookbooks/01-using-docker-for-development.adoc, before:

= Using Docker for development

During development, testing, or debugging it's often useful to run some services with Docker,
while others with an IDE.
Others, prefer to run everything in the IDE, but infrastructure dependencies, like a database, with Docker.
Both scenarios are supported.

== Mixing services started on Docker and IDE

By default, Docker Compose will start all services defined in the Compose configuration.

.All services started in Docker
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-all-in-docker.svg[All services started in Docker]

Imagine we'd like to work on the Organisation App. Ideally, we'd work on it within our IDE, but continue running
all the other services in Docker to use the application end-to-end.

First, let's disable the `organisation-app` service in `compose.override.yml` by setting `replicas` to 0.

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  organisation-app:
    deploy:
      replicas: 0
    # ...
----

This way, when we start Docker services the `organisation-app` won't be started as we expect it to be started from the IDE.

Next, point the gateway to where the Organisation App is running (outside of Docker):

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  gateway:
    environment:
      CDP_ORGANISATION_APP_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58090'
#      CDP_AUTHORITY_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:5050'
#      CDP_TENANT_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58080'
#      CDP_ORGANISATION_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58082'
#      CDP_PERSON_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58084'
#      CDP_FORMS_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58086'
#      CDP_DATA_SHARING_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58088'
    # ...
----

We use `host.docker.internal` to point to the host machine from Docker containers.

Now, we can start all Docker services (but the Organisation App) with `make up`
and run the Organisation App with the IDE (choose `http-for-docker` launch profile).

.Organisation App running in the IDE
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-organisation-app-in-ide.svg[Organisation App running in the IDE]

We can pick and choose which services are run by the host or by Docker,
so if we needed to also run the `organisation` service in the IDE, we can follow the same pattern.
First, edit `compose.override.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  gateway:
    environment:
      CDP_ORGANISATION_APP_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58090'
#      CDP_AUTHORITY_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:5050'
#      CDP_TENANT_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58080'
      CDP_ORGANISATION_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58082'
#      CDP_PERSON_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58084'
#      CDP_FORMS_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58086'
#      CDP_DATA_SHARING_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58088'
  organisation:
    deploy:
      replicas: 0
    # ...
----

Next, start selected services in the IDE, while Docker takes care of the other ones.

.Organisation App and Organisation service running in the IDE
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-organisation-app-and-organisation-in-ide.svg[Organisation App and Organisation service running in the IDE]

== Starting everything in the IDE

In case you preferred to run all the dotnet services in the IDE, you can disable them all in Docker by setting replicas to 0.
Use the `http` launch profile in your IDE.

Alternatively, you can run the db and migrations containers only with:

[source,bash]
----
make db
----

== IDE profiles

.Recent launch profiles
image::../images/development/cookbooks/ide-recent-launch-profiles.png[Recent launch profiles]

Each service has two launch profiles pre-configured:

* `http-for-docker` - the service will be proxied by the gateway service in Docker - good if we want to run most services on Docker, while few selected ones in IDE.
* `http` - the service will be called directly - good if we only want to start db in Docker, but run everything else in the IDE.

.Launch profiles
image::../images/development/cookbooks/ide-launch-profiles.png[Launch profiles]

// Image source: https://excalidraw.com/#json=_ph_7aW5NakOh2umNmL9E,4Nuynj2H3l6AV_oCTjSXOQ

Commit message:

Document how to run all services in the IDE

docs/development/cookbooks/01-using-docker-for-development.adoc, after:

= Using Docker for development

During development, testing, or debugging it's often useful to run some services with Docker,
while others with an IDE.
Others, prefer to run everything in the IDE, but infrastructure dependencies, like a database, with Docker.
Both scenarios are supported.

== Mixing services started on Docker and IDE

By default, Docker Compose will start all services defined in the Compose configuration.

.All services started in Docker
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-all-in-docker.svg[All services started in Docker]

Imagine we'd like to work on the Organisation App. Ideally, we'd work on it within our IDE, but continue running
all the other services in Docker to use the application end-to-end.

First, let's disable the `organisation-app` service in `compose.override.yml` by setting `replicas` to 0.

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  organisation-app:
    deploy:
      replicas: 0
    # ...
----

This way, when we start Docker services the `organisation-app` won't be started as we expect it to be started from the IDE.

Next, point the gateway to where the Organisation App is running (outside of Docker):

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  gateway:
    environment:
      CDP_ORGANISATION_APP_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58090'
#      CDP_AUTHORITY_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:5050'
#      CDP_TENANT_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58080'
#      CDP_ORGANISATION_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58082'
#      CDP_PERSON_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58084'
#      CDP_FORMS_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58086'
#      CDP_DATA_SHARING_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58088'
    # ...
----

We use `host.docker.internal` to point to the host machine from Docker containers.

Now, we can start all Docker services (but the Organisation App) with `make up`
and run the Organisation App with the IDE (choose `http-for-docker` launch profile).

.Organisation App running in the IDE
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-organisation-app-in-ide.svg[Organisation App running in the IDE]

We can pick and choose which services are run by the host or by Docker,
so if we needed to also run the `organisation` service in the IDE, we can follow the same pattern.
First, edit `compose.override.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
  gateway:
    environment:
      CDP_ORGANISATION_APP_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58090'
#      CDP_AUTHORITY_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:5050'
#      CDP_TENANT_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58080'
      CDP_ORGANISATION_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58082'
#      CDP_PERSON_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58084'
#      CDP_FORMS_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58086'
#      CDP_DATA_SHARING_HOST: 'http://host.docker.internal:58088'
  organisation:
    deploy:
      replicas: 0
    # ...
----

Next, start selected services in the IDE, while Docker takes care of the other ones.

.Organisation App and Organisation service running in the IDE
image::../images/development/cookbooks/dev-environment-organisation-app-and-organisation-in-ide.svg[Organisation App and Organisation service running in the IDE]

== Starting everything in the IDE

In case you preferred to run all the dotnet services in the IDE, you can disable them all in Docker by setting replicas to 0.

Alternatively to setting replicas to 0, you can run the db and migrations containers only with:

[source,bash]
----
make db
----

Use the `http` launch profile in your IDE to start each service. All services can be run together by using a multi-launch
profile (has to be created manually).

.Multi-launch profile
image::../images/development/cookbooks/ide-multi-launch-profile.png[Multi-launch profile]

== IDE profiles

.Recent launch profiles
image::../images/development/cookbooks/ide-recent-launch-profiles.png[Recent launch profiles]

Each service has two launch profiles pre-configured:

* `http-for-docker` - the service will be proxied by the gateway service in Docker - good if we want to run most services on Docker, while few selected ones in IDE.
* `http` - the service will be called directly - good if we only want to start db in Docker, but run everything else in the IDE.

.Launch profiles
image::../images/development/cookbooks/ide-launch-profiles.png[Launch profiles]

// Image source: https://excalidraw.com/#json=_ph_7aW5NakOh2umNmL9E,4Nuynj2H3l6AV_oCTjSXOQ
