docs/decisions/0003-applying-database-migrations.adoc, before:

= 3. Applying database migrations

Date: 2023-03-28

== Status

Draft

== Context

We need to evolve the database as we progress with development and, later on, with maintenance.

We have considered a number of options including those suggested in the official Entity Core documentation:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying?tabs=dotnet-core-cli

=== Option 1: DbContext.Database.Migrate() during startup

The application already has access to the database context, the connection, and migration files.
That means it's capable of executing the migrations during startup.

To achieve this, the following code needs to be added the the startup `Program`:

[source,csharp]
----
if (app.Configuration.GetValue<bool>("RunMigrationsOnStartup"))
{
    using (var scope = app.Services.CreateScope())
    {
        var db = scope.ServiceProvider.GetRequiredService<TenantContext>();
        db.Database.Migrate();
    }
}
----

Full change is available in the following pull request: https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/44

Advantages:

* Works with no additional effort.

Disadvantages:

* Multiple instances of any given service will compete for making schema modifications.
* It's officially not recommended to use this method in production.

Running `dotnet ef database update` is similar and is also not recommended for production.

=== Option 2: Generated SQL scripts

SQL scripts generated out of EF migrations are the most reliable option.
An SQL script can be reviewed before applying and the changes are idempotent.
It's recommended SQL scripts are version controlled.

To generate a migration:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet ef migrations script \
  -p Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence \
  -s Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.WebApi \
  --idempotent \
  -o Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence/Migrations/SQL/$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H%M)_CreateTenants.sql
----

To apply it in our local development setup:

[source,csharp]
----
docker compose exec \
  -it db psql -U cdp_user \
  -f - cdp < Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence/Migrations/SQL/2024-03-23_2303_CreateTenants.sql
----

Example implementation can be found in the following pull request:
https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/34/files

Advantages:

* Reliability.
* Simplicity.

Disadvantages:

* Requires additional tools to execute the migration (a database client, like psql).
* Since there's no way to know which migrations were already executed, all the migrations need to be re-applied.
  It's mostly fine since they're idempotent.

=== Option 3: Generated SQL scripts (containerised)

One limitation of option 2 is the availability of the database client during the deployment.
This could be fixed by building a dedicated migrations container to be run during the deployment.

Advantages:

* Reliability.

Disadvantages:

* Since there's no way to know which migrations were already executed, all the migrations need to be re-applied.
  It's mostly fine since they're idempotent.

=== Option 4: Migration bundles

Migration bundles are single-file executables that can be used to apply migrations to a database.
They're meant to
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying?tabs=dotnet-core-cli#bundles[address the shortcomings]
of SQL scripts and command-line tools.

Migration bundles can be self contained, which means they won't depend on anything else (like dotnet runtime).

Here's an example of how to generate a bundle:

[source,csharp]
----
dotnet ef migrations bundle \
  -p Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence \
  -s Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.WebApi \
  --self-contained
----

Bundle is self contained and all it needs to apply migrations is the connection string:

[source,csharp]
----
./efbundle --connection 'Server=localhost;Database=MYDB;Username=MYUSER;Password=MYPASS;'
----

Advantages:

* Self contained

Disadvantages:

* It's not very well documented how bundles work and how they're different to migration command-line tools.
* It's a manual step that needs to be run in development.

=== Option 5: Migration bundles (containerised)

Similarly to containerising SQL scripts, we can containerise bundles, and ship them with the application
or a dedicated container.

An implementation of this approach is provided in this pull request:
https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/51

Advantages:

* Self contained.
* Container version of migrations matches the application's version.
* The container can be run automatically when the development database starts.

Disadvantages:

* It's not very well documented how bundles work and how they're different to migration command-line tools.

=== Option 6: Use a specialized migrations library

Finally, a dedicated migrations library can be used to manage and execute migrations.
We have not explored this option much.

== Decision

TBD

== Consequences

TBD

Commit message:

Choose option 5 - migration bundles (containerised)

docs/decisions/0003-applying-database-migrations.adoc, after:

= 3. Applying database migrations

Date: 2023-04-03

== Status

Accepted

== Context

We need to evolve the database as we progress with development and, later on, with maintenance.

We have considered a number of options including those suggested in the official Entity Core documentation:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying?tabs=dotnet-core-cli

=== Option 1: DbContext.Database.Migrate() during startup

The application already has access to the database context, the connection, and migration files.
That means it's capable of executing the migrations during startup.

To achieve this, the following code needs to be added the the startup `Program`:

[source,csharp]
----
if (app.Configuration.GetValue<bool>("RunMigrationsOnStartup"))
{
    using (var scope = app.Services.CreateScope())
    {
        var db = scope.ServiceProvider.GetRequiredService<TenantContext>();
        db.Database.Migrate();
    }
}
----

Full change is available in the following pull request: https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/44

Advantages:

* Works with no additional effort.

Disadvantages:

* Multiple instances of any given service will compete for making schema modifications.
* It's officially not recommended to use this method in production.

Running `dotnet ef database update` is similar and is also not recommended for production.

=== Option 2: Generated SQL scripts

SQL scripts generated out of EF migrations are the most reliable option.
An SQL script can be reviewed before applying and the changes are idempotent.
It's recommended SQL scripts are version controlled.

To generate a migration:

[source,bash]
----
dotnet ef migrations script \
  -p Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence \
  -s Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.WebApi \
  --idempotent \
  -o Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence/Migrations/SQL/$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H%M)_CreateTenants.sql
----

To apply it in our local development setup:

[source,csharp]
----
docker compose exec \
  -it db psql -U cdp_user \
  -f - cdp < Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence/Migrations/SQL/2024-03-23_2303_CreateTenants.sql
----

Example implementation can be found in the following pull request:
https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/34/files

Advantages:

* Reliability.
* Simplicity.

Disadvantages:

* Requires additional tools to execute the migration (a database client, like psql).
* Since there's no way to know which migrations were already executed, all the migrations need to be re-applied.
  It's mostly fine since they're idempotent.

=== Option 3: Generated SQL scripts (containerised)

One limitation of option 2 is the availability of the database client during the deployment.
This could be fixed by building a dedicated migrations container to be run during the deployment.

Advantages:

* Reliability.

Disadvantages:

* Since there's no way to know which migrations were already executed, all the migrations need to be re-applied.
  It's mostly fine since they're idempotent.

=== Option 4: Migration bundles

Migration bundles are single-file executables that can be used to apply migrations to a database.
They're meant to
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/managing-schemas/migrations/applying?tabs=dotnet-core-cli#bundles[address the shortcomings]
of SQL scripts and command-line tools.

Migration bundles can be self contained, which means they won't depend on anything else (like dotnet runtime).

Here's an example of how to generate a bundle:

[source,csharp]
----
dotnet ef migrations bundle \
  -p Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.Persistence \
  -s Services/CO.CDP.Tenant.WebApi \
  --self-contained
----

Bundle is self contained and all it needs to apply migrations is the connection string:

[source,csharp]
----
./efbundle --connection 'Server=localhost;Database=MYDB;Username=MYUSER;Password=MYPASS;'
----

Advantages:

* Self contained

Disadvantages:

* It's not very well documented how bundles work and how they're different to migration command-line tools.
* It's a manual step that needs to be run in development.

=== Option 5: Migration bundles (containerised)

Similarly to containerising SQL scripts, we can containerise bundles, and ship them with the application
or a dedicated container.

An implementation of this approach is provided in this pull request:
https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/51

Advantages:

* Self contained.
* Container version of migrations matches the application's version.
* The container can be run automatically when the development database starts.

Disadvantages:

* It's not very well documented how bundles work and how they're different to migration command-line tools.

=== Option 6: Use a specialized migrations library

Finally, a dedicated migrations library can be used to manage and execute migrations.
We have not explored this option much.

== Decision

We're going to go with option 5 - Migration bundles (containerised).
Bundles are one of the recommended solutions.
Putting bundles inside a container gives us several options we could execute them during the deployment.

Option 5 is slitghtly easier to implement than option 3 while also being less flexible.
Option 3 allows for tweaking generated SQL scripts.
We might revisit the decision in future if it turns out we need this flexibility.

== Consequences

We're going to merge https://github.com/cabinetoffice/GCGS-Central-Digital-Platform/pull/51.
The pull request introduces a migration container that's executed with docker compose in local development environment.
The same container will be executed during the deployment.
